
                        ProFTPD 1.3.x README
                        ==================

Introduction
------------

ProFTPD is a highly configurable FTP daemon for Unix and Unix-like
operating systems.  See the README.ports file for more details about
the platforms on which ProFTPD in known or thought to build and run.

ProFTPD grew from a desire for a secure and configurable FTP server.
It was inspired by a significant admiration of the Apache web server.
Unlike most other Unix ftp servers, it has not been derived from the old
BSD ftpd code base, but is a completely new design and implementation.

ProFTPD's extensive configurability provides systems adminstrators great
flexibility in user authentication and access controls, including virtual
ftp users and easy chroot() ftp sessions for individual users.

ProFTPD is popular with many service providers for delivering update
access to user web pages, without resorting to Unix shell accounts.

ProFTPD powers many well-known, high-volume anonymous FTP sites,
including debian.org, kernel.org, redhat.com and sourceforge.net.

ProFTPD is bundled with several Linux distributions, including
Conectiva and Trustix.


Latest Release
--------------

     ftp://ftp.proftpd.org/distrib/
     http://www.proftpd.org/

     + see RELEASE_NOTES for an overview of the changes in this release

Major Features
--------------

    o A single main configuration file, with directives and directive groups
      patterned after those of the Apache web server. 

    o Per directory ".ftpaccess" configuration similar to Apache's ".htaccess". 

    o Designed to run either as a stand-alone server or from inetd.

    o Multiple virtual FTP servers and anonymous FTP services. 

    o Multiple passwd files.

    o Shadow password support, including support for expired accounts.

    o Multiple authentication methods, including PAM, LDAP and SQL.

    o Virtual users.

    o ProFTPD never executes any external program at any time.
      There is no SITE EXEC command, and all file and directory listings
      are generated internally, without using an external ls command.

    o Anonymous FTP and other chroot directories do not require any specific
      directory structure, executable programs or other system files. 

    o Modular architecture with an API that facilitates well structured
      extensions to meet user needs.

    o Visibility of directories or files controlled based on Unix style
      permissions or user/group ownership. 

    o Logging and utmp/wtmp support.  Logging is compatible with wu-ftpd,
      and extended, customizable logging is available.

    o If supported by the capabilities the host system, it can run as a
      non-privileged user in stand-alone mode, thwarting attacks aimed at
      exploiting "root" privileges.

    o GPL source license.  The source code is available to audit. 



Documentation
-------------

        The doc/ directory

        http://www.proftpd.org/docs/


Installation Overview
---------------------

For detailed installation instructions, see the INSTALL file in the root
directory of the source distribution.

The ProFTPD source distribution is designed to be configured using the
GNU autotools, so compiling and installing follows the familiar command
sequence of './configure ; make ; make install'.  However, a significant
portion of ProFTPD's configurability is done at compile time, so it is
highly recommended that you read INSTALL and all the README.* files that
pertain to your platform and desired features before building the sources.

ProFTPD uses a single configuration file.  A few examples are included in
the sample-configurations subdirectory of the source distribution.

On most systems, the inetd or xinetd configuration must be changed,
either to remove the current ftpd entry to run ProFTPD standalone,
or to change the current ftpd entry to use the proftpd daemon.

Questions
---------

If you have questions, please ask them on the appropriate mailing lists:

  http://www.proftpd.org/lists.html

If you don't understand the documentation, please tell us, so we can explain it
better.  The general idea is: if you need to ask for help, then something needs
to be fixed so you (and others) don't need to ask for help.  Asking questions
helps us to know what needs to be documented, described, and/or fixed.

