The coova-chilli codebase has a dependency on several tools which are required
to prepare it to be buildable.
These tools are invoked by the bootstrap script which runs through each of the
utilities and another tool (gengetopt) which is invoked during the build process.

These tools generate or link various files into place which results in the
ability to invoke the configure script with the necessary options for desired
featurs.
The result of running the configure script is a Makefile which will actually
compile the necessary parts of the codebase with the options specified at the
configure stage. During this process, gengetopt will be invoked.

To get started, you should have the following installed on the system you
intend to build coova-chill on:

A Compiler, GCC or clang are both tested.
Automake
Autoconf
libtool
gengetopt
make, GNU or BSD make are both tested.


Once you have obtained a copy of the coova-chilli source code, the following
four steps will configure and build coova-chilli with the miniportal feature.
Mini portal is a simple site which presents a login page to the user.
1) run the bootstrap script
   ./bootstrap
2) run the configure script
   ./configure --enable-miniportal --prefix=/tmp/foo
3) start the build
   make
4) If the build completes without issue, install by running
   make install
You should now have a copy of coova-chilli installed in a temporary location.
Depending on the system configuration, this location (/tmp) may be cleared on
reboot, but for the sake of testing this is sufficient. A more suitable location
should be used when looking to perform an actual install. Consult documentaion
of operating systems regarding paths or pick a prefix of choice (somewhere not
temporary scratch space).

To run coova-chilli, you'll need a RADIUS server either installed locally or
access to an instance, remotely. A utility called haserl which is used by the
mini portal to generate web pages is also required.

Using the example above, your configuration files will be installed in
/tmp/foo/etc

You can start chilli by running
/tmp/foo/sbin/chilli
