Pound THANKS file

Please see the AUTHORS file for the list of principal authors.

Many people further contributed to pound by reporting problems,
suggesting various improvements or submitting actual code.  Here is a
list of these people.  Help me keep it complete and exempt of errors.

Abner G. Jacobsen did a lot of testing in a production environment and
contributed some very nice ideas.

Akira Higuchi found a significant security issue in Pound and
contributed the code to fix it.

Albert (of Alacra) for investigating and writing the TCP_NODELAY code.

Alession Cervellin packages and makes available Solaris packages for
various Pound versions.

Andreas Roedl for testing and some ideas about logging in root jails.

David Couture found some nasty, lurking bugs, as well as contributing
some serious testing on big hardware.

Dmitriy Dvoinikov makes available a live-CD FreeBSD distribution that
includes a Pound binary.

Frank Denis contributed a few excellent code patches and some good ideas.

Frank Schmirler	wrote WebSocket support

Gurkan Sengun tested Pound on Solaris, contributed the Solaris cc
flags and makes a Solaris pre-compiled version available on
his Web-site (www.linuks.mine.nu)

Jan-Piet Mens raised some interesting security points about the HTTPS
implementation and brought the original idea for SSL header filtering.

Jim Washington contributed the code for WebDAV and tested it.

Ken Lalonde contributed very useful remarks and suggestions, as well
as correcting a few code errors.

Luuk de Boer did some serious testing and debugging of the WebDAV code
for Microsoft servers.

Maxime Yve discovered a nasty bug in the session tracking code and
contributed the patch to fix it.

Phil Lodwick contributed essential parts of the high-availability code
and came up with some good ideas. In addition, did some serious testing
under heavy loads.

Rick O'Sullivan	did lots of useful improvements

Shinji Tanaka contributed a patch for controlling logging to disk
files. This is available at http://www.hatena-inc.co.jp/~stanaka/pound/

Simon Matter packages and makes available RPMs for various Pound versions.
