NOTE: This file is no longer being maintained.  The names of recent
contributors can be found in the ChangeLog file.  THANKS may be merged
with ChangeLog in the future.

-------------------------- original content follows ---------------------------

Although many of the files carry just one name, many other people have
contributed to the project in various ways, e.g. by scrutinizing parts
of the implementation or by designing and implementing prototypes of
major system components. Their ideas significantly influenced the
concepts that went into the final design. Here they are, in alphabetic
order:

Rolf Fiedler wrote the driver for the TI TNETA1570-based ATM adapter he
(!) designed and built at TU Chemnitz.

Angela Giannitrapani found countless bugs in the signaling code while
working on Arequipa.

Michael Ginis created the "ATM on Linux" logo using POV-Ray.

Marko Kiiskila contributed LAN Emulation client and servers (kernel code
and demon processes), the ATM Name Service (ANS) programs, and also found
countless bugs in the signaling code.

Ronald A. McCormick modularized the ATMTCP driver and also contributed
a patch to upgrade from 1.3.24 to 1.3.50.

Andre Meier designed the first concept for Q.2931 message handling and
implemented a prototype. Although the current code is rewritten from
scratch, many of his ideas went into the table-based message handler.

Pedro Paiva did the first round of information gathering for a
thorough design study of IP over ATM and signaling, which was also
accompanied with some prototype implementation work.

Jean-Michel Pittet examined the problems that have to be tackled in the
design of SVC sockets, proposed a design, and implemented part of a
prototype. In a second project, he prototyped most of the AREQUIPA code.

Scott Shumate contributed the ILMI address registration demon that
saves us from typing all those unpleasently long ATM NSAP addresses
over and over again.

The kind help of people from Efficient Networks (particularly Chase
Bailey) and from ZeitNet (particularly George Marshall) was invaluable
for speedy development of the respective drivers.
